Hello and welcome to another tutorial.
I'm going to continue our discussion on compiling Java applications to Native Executable Binary.
So far we've been using terminal and the problem with terminal and calling the native image tool is
that you have to manually feed that native image the arguments that it needs, for example, the class
path of your Java application so that it knows all the dependencies, all the class files that have
to be compiled to a native executable binary.
And that could be tedious.
So what we want to do, we want to use an ID like Eclipse ID so that the IDs, the job IDs, the way
they do it is they organize your Java source files and then they compile the files in a manner that
is known to the ID.
It knows where all your class files is.
So internally, IDs know your class path, right?
The dependencies of your Java project and now IDs such as Eclipse ID have a powerful tool called external
tool, which means it allows you to configure using external applications like the native image tool.
Right.
And then because we are in the ID environment, we are in the Eclipse ID, we can take advantage of
the fact that Eclipse knows the class path, it knows which directories are have the class files that
are used for your application.
It also knows all the dependencies of your class file.
Remember that the IDs have their own java compiler.
Usually they use the Java runtime that comes with the JDK.
Now these days, even Eclipse ID comes with its own integrated Java runtime, so it doesn't have to.
You don't need to install a JDK to run your job application.
Eclipse has always had its own Java compiler, so whenever you install it it comes with the Java compiler.
But it used to not have any Java runtime.
It has to rely on the Java runtime that is configured on your operating system.
But these days Eclipse IDE even comes with its own Java runtime, so when you download it, it's ready
to go.
You don't need to install any JDK or anything.
Obviously I'm a Java enthusiast and then I've installed lots of JDK.
Jeffreys and Eclipse allows you to configure the Java runtime inside the ID so that you tell it.
Hey, use JDK 18 for this Java project or JDK 17 or whatever.
You don't have to use only the Java runtime that comes with the Eclipse ID in the recent versions.
But here I'm just going to focus on the external tool.
And again, external tool allows the user to run external applications.
For example, native image tool, write native image, let's say, for example, native image.
And that's our goal here.
So in the tool bar of the eclipse ID, when you are in the Java perspective, which means you have configured
Eclipse ID to develop Java applications, now we know that Eclipse has the concept of perspective and
you can install or go into a C++ perspective.
So it allows you to develop C++ applications or Python perspective.
So it allows you to develop Python applications.
But when you select the Java runtime or Java perspective, these buttons at the toolbar are configured
to run, for example, Java application.
So this green button, the play button is whenever you run a job application eclipse, it creates a
run configuration which passes the flags to your JVM or even to your job application.
Those string array asks for your job application, and then there is a button that has a red suitcase
here, and it's called the external tool.
And what you want to do, you want to click on this arrow that next to it, it opens this menu and then
you go to external tool configurations.
Right now, if you have already created a few external tools and have used them on inside the eclipse
side, it shows you the most recent external tools that you have created and run.
I mean, here I have native image with the LLVM 17 and I also duplicated it and perform some experiments.
But if you it's the first time you click on this right arrow next to the external tool button, it's
the list here is empty and you click on the external tool configurations to go and create a new external
tool configuration for the native image.
So why use external tool in Eclipse ID?
Clearly you can run the external application from terminal.
For example.
So far we've been using native image from the terminal to compile our Java application.
The problem is that once your job application becomes very complicated, very large, it has a lot of
classifiers, lots of packages, lots of dependencies, dependencies on other projects or Java files.
Then specifying the dependencies of your job application for native image becomes difficult.
External tool allows you to access eclipses internal environment variables.
So Eclipse has some internal variables that only Eclipse understands.
And when you use those names at runtime, Eclipse actually replaces those names, those variables with
the actual string representation of those variables.
So it's a string substitution and you can even define your own internal environment variables for eclipse.
So Eclipse ID is available of the.
Of the past two work in space or the selected file in the tree.
So.
So for example.
The for example.
Basically the path to work in space or selected file in the tree view.
Right.
So if you want to basically.
So you'll say you have multiple directories on your operating system that you have defined as eclipse
workspaces.
Obviously, you can open up Eclipse ID and tell them, okay, use this directory, I want to work on
this workspace or the other one.
But then once you change workspaces, the actual path to that workspace changes.
But as long as you define your use a environment variable that represents the workspace, you don't
need to change anything because eclipse internally is where the path to the workspace, right?
And there is an environment where we call the workspace underscore lock or location, which means whenever
you use that environment where in eclipse, eclipse is aware of what the actual value of that variable
is.
Same with the tree view.
So Eclipse has a package explorer or file explorer and whenever you select something there is an environment
variable that has the full path to that selected resource or selected file.
Right.
So eclipses internal variables, access these variables using dollar sign and then braces and the name
of the environment variable.
The entire expression will be substituted by eclipse ID at runtime and this will be executed in a separate
shared process process.
So for the external tool, if you you want to pass some arguments or flags to your external tool, let's
say native image, we want to specify the class path or the working directory.
Remember in terminal, even in terminal, when we every time we launch the native image Google home
being directory in native image, we are inside some working directory and I will show you that the
same concept applies to this external tool configuration.
You want to tell Eclipse where to run this external tool from.
So which directory is the working directory?
And working directory is basically the current directory.
The dot right dot means if I tell it hyphen CP dot, it means the current working directory.
So that's the first thing that you, you have to tell to the external application, right.
What is the working directory and eclipse takes care of it.
And then some flags, for example, hyphen.
CP You want to tell it, put all the dependencies to these arguments so you want to tell eclipse hey,
take care of adding all the let's say I have lots of jars as dependencies to my job application and
I want to tell Native Image that all of those jars have to be on this class path argument.
Obviously going trying to manually write them down, let's say directory one colon directory to remember
the class path.
A separator is colon.
It's very tedious, whereas inside the eclipse ID Eclipse is already aware of all the dependencies of
your Java application, so there is no problem with that.
All you have to do, you have to use something like an environment variable in eclipse that has that
says for example, project underscore class path and at runtime when you run this external tool on your
Java project, eclipse replaces this environment variable, which is an eclipse variable internal variable
with the correct string representation which has all the.
Basically all the dependencies of your class path, right?
So this is the power of this external tool in eclipse ID, right?
So here I have listed all the internal environment variables.
So here is a few important of them that you probably end up using most of the time.
So first of all, let's look at this list.
I'm going to go through this quickly.
Active, underscore, core, underscore, build, dear, build files, build, project, build, type,
bundle, location, CTT path, entry bar.
This is the C++ for the C++ plugin and config description config name container location container name
container path current date easy shell eclipse home.
Remember when you launch Eclipse, Eclipse also runs on top of a gvm.
So it also has this environment variable eclipse home that tells you where is the home directory of
the eclipse right.
E home env var environment well file prompt file you or I let me zoom out.
Let's zoom back in.
So file your IE folder prompt git branch.
So if one of your Java projects is actually a git repository, you can you can basically inquire some
of the environment variables that are associated with git inside eclipse git directory, git repo relative
path git work tree java extensions, regex java type name.
This is the most important one.
This returns the fully qualified name of a class file password prompt project class path.
This is very, very important when we configure an external tool to run a native image because we have
to tell it all the directories are on the class path, all the dependencies, our Java project and all
you have to do is use this environment variable inside eclipse project location project name project
path resource location resource name resource path selected resource location selected resource name
selected resource path.
Now the difference between resource and this Java type name here is that resource is the actual file.
So if you click on the file in the source file in the package Explorer, it's been considered a resource.
But if you select that Java file and use the Java type name, Eclipse actually returns the fully qualified
name of the class file.
Remember native image runs or operates on the class files, not java source files.
Select the text source lookup java agent s string prompt sys system path system property and these are
used if you want to inquire some of the Java system properties like JVM properties when you launch Eclipse,
obviously it runs on top of Java that JVM has been already configured.
So it has some system properties, workspace, location.
This is very important that returns the full path to your workspace workspace underscore project, underscore
locations.
And this is all the locations that are associated with your work, especially.
And again, the ones that I have highlighted in a box here work is this location, project, location,
name, class path, resource name, path, java type name.
These are the most important ones, right?
So before going into the details, what I'm going to do, I'm going to jump into Eclipse ID and quickly
show you the meaning of these environment variables.
So.
Let's head to Eclipse.
This is my package explorer.
Right.
And if I click on the any file in the package Explorer, remember you can have packages, Java packages
or you can have a non package directories in your Java project.
So to the eclipse IDE, this is not a package.
For example, this test directory is not a package, right?
It's just some directory that is not and anything that is not a package is not going to be added on
the class path of your Java file, but nevertheless inside a directory you can have a Java file, classifies
text file, any type of file.
And in the package Explorer, when you click on any of these, these are called a resource.
Now what this means is that if I go to external tool configuration right now I have created a native
image 17 and I will walk you through this in the next lecture.
But let's look at this.
Let's call it a dummy.
Right.
All right.
So we shouldn't run this.
So let's go back to this arrow and let's look at the dummy, right?
So the way you do it.
All right, let's actually delete all of the old ones.
Yeah.
So the way you do it, you go to this external tool configuration and then click the program, right?
You want to run a program as an external tool and you press on this, press the new configuration button
to create a configuration of the selected type.
So you click on this, you are creating a new configuration.
Now, obviously you can delete it, you can duplicate it if you want to quickly change something.
This button is for running and there you can filter them or you can expand or not expand.
So let's delete the previous one.
So export launch configuration, you can, for example, export these or filter them, filter, configuration,
type, etc. But right now we just created a new configuration.
You can give it a name.
This name is just something that you can easily distinguish, let's say dummy external tool, right?
And what kind of application do I want to run as external tool?
Let's say let's go back here to our terminal and we know that if I type ls it's going to it's a command
line application and it lists all the files and directories.
But where is this list?
It's in bean ls right.
So instead of typing ls you can say being ls and it is still works.
So I'm going to copy this.
Go back to eclipse ID and then being LLS.
So I want to tell you to run the LLS tool and then working directory.
This application is going to be run, but just like terminal.
When we run it, you have to be inside some working directory, right?
So let's tell the eclipse.
You want to run it in our Java Java native image.
So there are different ways.
First of all, there is this variable.
That list immediately lists all the internal variables of Eclipse and you can quickly search for something,
let's say project basically path or project location.
Retains the absolute file system.
So there is a description that immediately tells you what's going on, returns the absolute filesystem
path of the resources project.
So remember I create a Java project, whatever file that I select and whatever file and select this
project location returns the the path to the project Java project that this file belongs to.
So let's select this.
And you see Eclipse replaces it with the internal representation of the environment, variable dollar
sign, curly braces and then the name of the variable at runtime.
This will be replaced by the string representation of this project location.
And again, if you select different files in different projects, this will work.
So Eclipse automatically substitutes this variable with the correct a string representation.
And for the argument, we're not going to pass anything, right?
So let's apply and let's run this right now.
I selected this terminal.
All right, so what I forgot to do.
Let's go back to our external tool.
And you see there are other stuff that again I will show you in the future lectures.
But for now there is a build build before launch.
I'm going to select it.
Build means if there are also other projects in the workspace, what to do?
Do you want to recompile all the files?
For now, we're just running, LZ.
We want to list the directories or all the files inside the project directory.
So I don't want to build refresh.
We don't want to refresh anything, build.
We cancel the build.
We're not defining any environment variables and the common we can allocate console so that see the
output when we run these achievements.
And as you can see I select a file I run my external to dummy external tool and it actually runs the
command being ls right ls is the command line tool and it runs it under the working directory and I
told it to run it on basically the project location, right.
The project that this file belongs to.
So regardless of which file or which resource, any directory or any file is a resource.
If I run it, it's going to run the external tool being ls inside this directory.
So it's equivalent to open a terminal here in the disk, the directory and say hyphen forward slash
bean ls or just say ls.
All right.
So this was the quick introduction to this external tool.
In the future lectures, I will go in more depth about how to actually configure this external tool
further.
What is the build or tab?
There was a build tab here.
What does it mean?
There is a refreshed environment.
There is a common here.
What can we do about it?
And again, in the arguments, basically what arguments we can pass to our external tool.
So when you again to summarize, when you launch a Java application, let's say when you launch an an
application in the terminal, you write the full path or the relative path or just the name of the application.
And we saw that if you just typed the name of the application, the terminal and the operating system,
they search into the path environment variables.
Right?
Well, let's say we type the foo name being lls, right?
And then you want to tell the external tool.
And when you run a application the terminal, you always run it inside some working directory.
So this working directory represents the current directory that I'm inside, which is this directory
Java native image.
Right when I launch this application which is ls to list all the files and then LS can take arguments,
hyphen l, hyphen a etc. right.
So these arguments actually represent those.
I can say hyphen la apply and then run.
And as you can see, any resource, any file, anything that I select and run my external tool, it's
going to run it on run the ls hyphen le in inside this working day which is Java native image.
So it tells me client directory ideas, class path, these are the eclipses and these are all the directories
inside the project directory.
Right.
I've been example run as a run me Z test.
That's right.
So I hope you understand this.
In the next lecture I will go into more detail, so please stay tuned and I'll see in the next one.